Script to create upgrade tables for release day (#10520)
spectrocloud/librarium: scripts/release/generate-upgrade-paths.README.md

<!-- vale off -->

# generate-upgrade-paths.js

Regenerates the self-hosted **upgrade-path tables** in the Palette and VerteX
"Upgrade" pages from the **Upgrade Paths** section of the Confluence
[Release Artifacts](https://spectrocloud.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/ENGINEERIN/pages/2087419998/Release+Artifacts)
page.

> It rewrites only the content between marker comments, e.g.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It rewrites only the content between marker comments, for example:
```

```md
<!-- upgrade-paths:vmware-4.9:start -->
...generated table...
<!-- upgrade-paths:vmware-4.9:end -->
```

## Scope

Only matrix blocks for **version 4.6 and newer** are auto-managed
(`vmware`/`kubernetes` 4.6+, `appliance` 4.7+). The `*-prior` and legacy
4.5 / 4.4 blocks are left untouched for hand maintenance.

## Status mapping

Mirrors what the published docs show:

- `supported` / `verified` / `✅` → ✅
- `fails` / `not supported` / `❌` / `:cross_mark:` → ❌
- `n/a` / `NA` / `In Progress` / blank → _dropped_ (not published)

## Setup

Create an Atlassian API token at
<https://id.atlassian.com/manage-profile/security/api-tokens> and export the
credentials (a `confluence-upgrade.env` file kept **outside** the repo works
well — never commit it):

```bash
export CONFLUENCE_BASE_URL="https://spectrocloud.atlassian.net"
export CONFLUENCE_PAGE_ID="2087419998"
export CONFLUENCE_EMAIL="you@spectrocloud.com"
export CONFLUENCE_API_TOKEN="..."

> ```

Reviewer: Can we consider adding the `confluence-upgrade.env` file to `.gitignore` so we can keep it locally in the repo?

Alternatively, can we not add these credentials to the `.env` file and add or adjust an existing `make ...` command to create the env vars in `.env`? This would mirror what we do for other release-related env vars today.

Author: Good call —  we (Claude and I) went with the second option since it mirrors how we already scaffold `JIRA_*` and `SUPER_API_TOKEN`. The `CONFLUENCE_*` vars are now added to the init-release make target, so they land in `.env` (already `git-ignored` and `-included`) like the other release credentials. Dropped the separate `confluence-upgrade.env` file and its loading step entirely.

On the first suggestion: `.gitignore` already has a `*.env` glob (line 28), so `confluence-upgrade.env` was actually already ignored — but folding the vars into `.env` makes the separate file unnecessary, so we don't need either change now.
